All right, so,
we talked about choreography.
Now we're gonna talk about states.
Because, especially when
working with web applications,
you are dealing with different states.
And even if you're not, like if you're
just styling an input, or a button,
there's different states that
those elements can be in.
And so, it's important to define,
just the different styles and
animations that you use, for
each of the different states.
So, let's actually take
a button as an example.
So, I'm going to go back to my main file.
And, we have a few balls here.
So let's just add a button.
Divs aren't buttons,
let me make this a button.
And so let's open our styles as well.
So, let's type this a little bit first.
This is going to have appearance none,
background blue,
color white font-weight bold.
Let's add some padding just 2rem,
border none.
All right, so let's see how that looks.
So if we go back to here.
All right, so, that's at the bottom over
there, let's get rid of our balls for now.
All right, so now we have a button.
This is gonna say click me.
Okay, so there's different states
that this button could be in.
And we talked about this briefly before,
but this button,
you could hover it, you could focus it,
the button could be active,
it might not be and so,
let's add some styles for that.
So, and we're gonna be using
transition here as well, so
I'm just gonna say transition.
Just to make things simple,
we're gonna say all 0.3 seconds and
we're gonna go with
the default easing over here.
So, let's do some common styles for
the button.
Let me make this 2rem, 3rem.
So, we could say that when we hover it,
it's gonna have an opacity of 0.8.
And so, you could see here,
actually it's not really Let
me just make sure i'm in
the right thing or 0.5, see that.
Okay, so you can see that
it's going between 0.5 and 1.
And so of course you could also click it.
So, when it's active, I'm gonna transform,
translate Y and
let's just move this down maybe 20%.
All right, so you see that's working.
But when thinking about states like
there's many states that it could be
in and we might want to define when
we're clicking it even if we're hovered,
we want it to be full opacity.
So, we could say,
that this should be opacity 1.
So, this is just an example of
like just different states.
And, also we have 0.3 seconds defined for
the overall transition?
So, if we click this and we want it
to be maybe a little bit faster,
we could specify it for
that individual state.
So we could say transition duration,
maybe 0.15 seconds.
So, it hovers and
it goes transparents pretty smoothly,
but when you click it it's pretty fast.
And so, these are things where
it's important to think about.
Now, there's other states
which might not be native to
the elements, or
to whatever you're working on.
For example, you might want to
define some sort of app wide state,
in which you wants to show
some sort of animation, or
set some sort of animation property,
such as duration and delay.
And so for that, one of my favorite
things to use, is called data attributes.
So, let me just show you what
that looks like real quick.
Let's say that I have a data attribute
on the entire app, called data-state.
And so let's say that this is, loading.
And so, what's cool about this is that
I could, again, use CSS variables.
And so let's put this just on,
we put it on the app.
So, app and let's see I have a color or
actually opacity.
So, opacity i'm going to set this to,1.
However, if my app is in a loading state
I might want that opacity to be 0.5 And
so, this is how you would select
that data attribute in CSS.
So, this is something that is not really
commonly used, but it's extremely useful.
So, this allows you to define custom
attributes, or data attributes and
there's a reason that we're prefixing it
with data which I'll talk about soon.
But you could select elements
based on that attribute.
So we could say, if the app has this
attribute of data-state equals loading,
then we want the opacity to be 0.5.
And so now, we could set
something like the h1 opacity.
And so we could see because it's loading,
it's actually a little transparent.
So, let me actually copy that over here.
Okay, so, now you see it's loading.
It's little bit transparent in fact,
let's make this even more prominent
just because that might be hard to see.
So ironically,
I'm making it harder to see,
to make it easier to see the difference.
Anyway, so you see that now that
the app is in the data-state loading.
We are setting that CSS variable,
so if I go in the elements,
Just exit this and change this
to something else like success.
Then we see that it's fully transparent or
fully opaque.
Loading, it goes right back to loading.
So, why are we prefixing this with data?
What's so special about data?
So, the really cool thing about this and
I'm gonna grab the app right here.
So, const app equals
document.query selector app.
All right, so what's great about this is
that, you could do this one of two ways.
If you want to just modify any attribute,
that it's like app.set attributes and
then you want to set maybe data-states and
you wanna set that to loading.
It's already loading,
so we could do success.
So, this definitely works.
But it's a little bit verbose.
So instead,
what you could do is you could say,
let me zoom in a bit, app.dataset.
And so, here is what we get for dataset.
It's going to give you all
of those attributes prefixed
with data dash whatever.
So we could say,
app.dataset.state equals loading.
That's all you have to do.
And then it's going to change,
the data attribute for that.
So, this makes it really useful to
work between, JavaScript and CSS.
Yes.
>> Is opacity the attribute or a variable?
>> So, opacity is the variable.
So, we could even call this,
transparency if we wanted to.
And, it's gonna work the same.
So, So
that's a success and yeah,
sorry for the naming conflict.